Freesoul-Kofi El Shabazz-Thompson was born in Iture, a village in Elmina, Ghana in
1997, and grew up throughout Pittsburgh’s East End. F-K E S-T’s art is both reductive and
experiential, situated on the edge of concise bordering sterile. His sculptures, digital bodies, and
performances are arrangements of elements; moments seeking holistic understanding that all is
self. His multi-disciplinary approach engages found objects, mainstream products (as cultural
symbols), woodwork, metalwork, creative coding, graphic designs, sound design and
manufacturing engineering. This facet of his work mirrors the intersectionality of the topics he
focuses on.
F-K E S-T is developing his practice as a professional artist. He wants to be known for
organic collaboration with communities and ancestors through Generation; his application of
experiential artwork as a means of self-determination through internal reconciliation of external
situations. F-K E S-T cites the perennial philosophies, specifically those of Mulla Sadra and
Shahad Suhrawardi as influential to his generative approach. Additionally, he considers the
works of Francis Alys to be ideal in “merg[ing] the poetic with the political.”
On the spectrum of beauty and pragmatism, F-K E S-T’s insists his work fall on the
extremes, often inserting his work into everyday-moments or everyday-moments into his work.
He produced Untitled alongside artist Nelly Lin in 2019, a project that modifies the 21st century
moment of being screened by security cameras into a conversation on identity and the
implications of subtle infringements of privacy. In early 2020 he developed the Envelope Chair,
a comical insertion of a tool outside of its use case, meant to introduce the foundation for a later
work considering the true cost of convenience fed by Amazon and other mega-corporations. F-K
E S-T also considers many of his conjectural works to be active, implying an eternal interim
state. In his recent work, a painting with working title A Shadow Field in America, F-K E S-T
reduces biological origins of color psychology into a narrative outside time. Because the work is
active, the preeminent effect is compounded by the removal of the work from its display place,
its modification, its rebirth, and its eventual return (to its display place). F-K E S-T’s works
began with woodworking, and since 2013 have remained true to his generative application that
all is self, and both affirm and project his philosophy that internal and external understanding is
indiscriminate.
Freesoul-Kofi El Shabazz-Thompson is working to establish his learning and working
methodology as a virtual homeschooling program for those looking to learn through the
intersections of Art, Technology, and Design. He is also pursuing greater engagement with
permaculture practice, especially where agricultural technologies can be applied and
disseminated locally