Freesoul-Kofi El Shabazz
4726 Stanton Ave Pittsburgh PA 15201 (USA)
58/20 Iture Elmina (Ghana)
+1 412 295 9517
+233 57 288 6471
yes@freesoul.id

December 8th, 2019

To Whom It May Concern,

I hope this letter finds you well.

When my team and I were informed that ISEN's Resnick program would be funding our research for Raitong Organics' cattle visibility and containment issue within their co-op in Thailand, I was eager to touch down. This meant that we would have the opportunity to research and investigate in-field, which is my favorite part of the design process. Without this, our ability to develop a solution that is directly informed by not only the users, but also the community at large, would have been seriously limited. The project is on-going, so if you'd like to see my teams research and iterations check out my website. 
	
'Cattle Tech' is just one of the projects I've been a part of this year. Being that 2019 was my final year of undergrad, I was engaged in multiple capstone design engineering projects, as well as personal projects throughout. Ranging from designing assembly methods and jigs for the 'Bionic Wrench,' to exploring emergent horizons through experiential installation art, and even bringing elementary kids drawings to life using CAD/CAM and injection molding (LINK). In this, my year really led me to lean into the breadth of my interests. For example, with Cattle Tech, as hardware lead I was focused on CADing a containment collar-box, but I had the most experience sewing, so I also worked on DFM and fabrication of a hi-vis collar. I was able to play an integral role in the development of our software too, due to my familiarity with Arduino's Feather and having some programming vocab; communication with our expert consultants was clear. When it came time for our final presentation, I shot, co-directed, and edited a video on how to assemble our solution. So my nature is multidisciplinary, and though it took me a while to take ownership of that, I love to work in intersections. This fact, in combination with my self-starter mentality, is why I feel I am one type of perfect fit for an Intern position at Smart Design. 

I graduated with a BS in Manufacturing and Design Engineering from Northwestern University in September and in the two months since, I've been travelling, spending time with family, and turning my focus inward. I've taken some time to research me, in order to iterate on the design project that is my life. As an artist/designer/engineer/wildcard my motivation is sourced in my instinct to play a role in nature, and to contribute to wholeness of experience for all. A multidisciplinary community such as Smart Design, which recognizes design solutions as an ecosystem, is exactly the type of environment I want to learn from and contribute to. I'd love to begin a conversation about how I can do so.

With gratitude,

Freesoul-Kofi El Shabazz